  The Comrades Marathon 2018 When:   June 10, 2018 Where:  Pietermaritzburg City Hall Chief Albert Luthuli Street , Pietermaritzburg, South Africa The Comrades Marathon is considered to be the world’s greatest ultra-marathon standing at 89.9 kilometres long and attracting thousands upon thousands of participants each year. The next edition of the ultra-marathon will be returning on the 10th of June 2018. The race is an annually held South African event. Its popularity has grown over the years after the first inaugural event that was held in 1921. Running enthusiasts flock from all over the world to participate in the event and are egged on by a vast number of spectators. The event attracts over 13 000 runners. For the past 17 years, it has been mandatory for runners to monitor their progress and timing through the use of the ChampionChip… For more info: https://www.sleeping-out.co.za/events/comrades-marathon   2018 FIFA World Cup When: June 14 -15 July Where:  Russia The 2018 FIFA World Cup will be the 21st FIFA World Cup, a quadrennial international football tournament contested by the men’s national teams of the member associations of FIFA. It is scheduled to take place in Russia from 14 June to 15 July 2018, after the country was awarded the hosting rights on 2 December 2010. This will be the first World Cup held in Europe since the 2006 tournament in Germany, the first ever to be held in Eastern Europe and the eleventh time that it was held in Europe. All of the stadium venues are in European Russia to keep travel time manageable. For more info: http://www.fifa.com/worldcup/   Coney Island Mermaid Parade guide When: June 16, 2018 Where: Surf Avenue, New York City Stock up on glitter and nautical attire: The Coney Island Mermaid Parade returns to one of the best Brooklyn attractions for its 36th year. Thousands of spectators flock to Surf Avenue—Coney Island’s main drag—to watch King Neptune and Queen Mermaid lead a procession of beglittered semi-nude marchers in costumes during one of the best NYC events in June. The annual event, started by Coney Island USA founder Dick Zigun in 1983, has become a neighborhood mainstay ever since. Read on for everything you need to know about the event from how to join, where and when the parade starts and more. Don’t miss your chance to enjoy a whimsical and wild afternoon at one of the best New York beaches! For more info: https://www.timeout.com/newyork/things-to-do/events-festivals/coney-island-mermaid-parade   CAPITAL CRAFT BEER FESTIVAL 2018 When:  June 16, 2018 Where: PRETORIA NATIONAL BOTANICAL GARDENS, South Africa Over the last few years Capital Craft Beer Festival has established itself as an indispensable part of the Pretoria social calendar not to be missed as 10 000 beer and music lovers congregate in the beautiful natural scenery offered by the Pretoria National Botanical Gardens. This event sets the bar for the industry with over 40 brewers present, ample entertainment available and a massive variety of food to choose from. Don’t miss out on this spectacular event. Capital Craft Beer Fest promises to be a well-executed and unforgettable experience. For more info: https://www.capitalcraft.co.za/beerfest/   LAGOS ACHIEVERS AWARD When:  June 24, 2018 Where:  Federal Palace, Ahmadu Bello Way, Lagos, Nigeria The 2018 Lagos Achievers Award ceremony aims to recognize the success and vitality of all sectors in Nigeria specifically in Lagos, Nigeria. This unique annual awards program has been established primarily to acknowledge, encourage and celebrate excellence among Nigerian sector by giving them the opportunity to gain valuable exposure and well-deserved recognition for their national and global expansion ambitions. The main goal of the award program is, therefore, to help Lagos’ business sector grow and prosper, and to market Lagos as an investment destination for the rest of the world. For more info: http://eventnownow.com    Agricbusiness Tradeshow & Conference When: June 26-27, 2018 Where: NICON Luxury Hotel Abuja, Abuja, Nigeria The Agricbusiness Tradeshow & Conference serves as the platform to discuss the potential and viability of the agriculture business in Nigeria and the West African sub region. The event seeks to symbolize the opportunities in a gribusiness, as well as synergize on technologies, techniques and human resources to take this all important sector to the level of Africa union food security initiative. The event aims to uphold the importance of agriculture in Nigeria and surrounding economies and how this occupation contributed to the successful economic growth of the region. It features discussions, interactive sessions and communication on livestock feeding and all livestock correspondents. It is also an event to discover new business opportunities. For more info: https://10times.com/nigeria?month=june    SAN VINO WINE FIGHT (SPAIN) Where: Haro – Spain When: June 28 – 30, 2018 Best Festivals Cultural Events World 2017 Music Festivals 2017Recommended By John @ Roaming Around The World Spain’s annual Batalla de Vino, or Wine Battle, must be one of Europe’s most unique and underrated annual festivals. Each year in the small village of Haro, thousands of revelers emerge to a hill just after sunrise to wage war on each other using red wine as their weapon! Water guns, insect sprayers, and buckets are all filled with the deep red liquid that leaves attendees stained from head to toe. This wild event takes place on the morning of June 29th each year. But the night before is when the party really gets started. The festivities draw a mostly local crowd, making it a fun cultural experience as you stay up all night drinking and dancing in the streets until the wine fight begins in the early morning hours.  For more info: https://maketimetoseetheworld.com/best-festivals-cultural-events-world/  