 Mummies of the World – Exhibition When: March 1 – June 30, 2018 Where: Prague Holesovice Exhibition Centre, Vystaviste, 170 00 Prague 7. This exhibition has assembled the largest collection of mummies in the world (plus other artefacts), loaned from museums, universities and private collections. Explore the culture and civilisations of ancient peoples from Egypt, Europe and South America. For more info: https://www.pragueexperience.com/events/events.asp?EventYear=2018&EventMonth=03   Nigeria Manufacturing & Equipment Expo When: March 13-15, 2018 Where: Landmark Centre, Lagos, Nigeria Nigerian Raw Materials Exposition is a three-day event being held from 13 to 15 March 2018 at the Landmark Centre in Lagos, Nigeria. This event showcases agricultural based primary and secondary raw material like cassava, cashew nuts, maize, oil palm, rubber, cocoa, soya beans, coconut, syrup, glucose, glycerine, sugar, hydrated lime, vegetable fats, talc and mineral based primary raw material like limestone, silica, tin, ceramics, titanium dioxide, coal, soda, ash, flavouring, colorants and seasoning. For more info: https://10times.com/nigerian-raw-materials-exposition   Mt. Takao Hiwatari Festival When: March 11, 2018 Where: Tokyo You can see and even participate in fire walking at the Mt Takao Hiwatari Festival near Takaosan Yakuouin Temple on March the 12th from 1pm. The sacred act of walking on hot coals and embers is regarded as an act of cleansing and purification which as well as being good for cold feet also apparently promotes plenty of good stuff including world peace, longevity and health, prevention of disaster and protection from road accidents.  There are still some risks though – of two friends that tried it in 2014, one got across unscathed while the other got burnt feet! The festivities are a short walk from Takaosanguchi Station on the Keio Takao Line that is easily accessible from Shinjuku. For more info: https://tokyocheapo.com/events/mt-takao-hiwatari-festival/   Paella Festival in Yoyogi Park When: March 31–April 1, 2018 Where: Tokyo The Paella Festival kicks off spring in Tokyo with some tasty foreign cuisine. On Saturday from 9-12 pm, you can watch (and taste!) Japan’s preliminaries for the International Paella Competition. They also hold a national competition, choosing Japan’s best paella chef by vote. The Harukaze Music Festival will also be in the park on the same weekend. Enjoy free music together with your free paella, plus cherry blossoms for a fun spring weekend. For more info: https://tokyocheapo.com/events/paella-festival/   When: March 1-31, 2018 Throughout March, The Francophonie Cultural Festival features four weeks of concerts, theatrical performances, films, culinary tastings, literary salons, children’s workshops, and more in Washington D.C. The nation’s capital will resonate with the vibrant sounds, sights, and tastes of the French-speaking in the largest Francophone festival in the world. For more info: https://www.tripsavvy.com/francophonie-cultural-festival-1040087 When: March 27-29, 2018 Where: Landmark Centre, Lagos, Nigeria International Trade Show on Food & Beverages and Hospitality”
130 EXHIBITORS from 20 countries! – 10 OFFICIAL COUNTRY PAVILIONS! food + hospitality Nigeria is one part of the international Trade Fair Agrofood Nigeria. agrofood Nigeria is an international trade fair covering the entire value chain from field to fork consisting of three sub-events with the following exhibition topics: – agro Nigeria (agriculture) – food + bev tec Nigeria (process & packaging machinery, food ingredients) – food + hospitality Nigeria (food & drinks, foodservice equipment). The 3-day event will be held from 27-29 March at the Landmark Centre in Lagos, Nigeria. It will gather international and Nigerian industry leaders, investors, experts, academia and journalists to discuss latest technologies and conclude business. In order to create valuable synergies for exhibitors and trade visitors alike, Agrofood Nigeria is held in conjunction with plastprintpack Nigeria. For more info: https://10times.com/hrea When: April 5-6, 2018 Where: Landmark Centre, Ikoyi II,  Nigeria “Africa’s biggest HR conference, Exhibitions & Awards”
HR Expo Africa is a broad-based Human Resource platform that attracts a wide spectrum of HR practitioners and other professionals from the private, public and third sectors of the economy from across the world to Its vibrant and exciting hub of ideas yearly, to shape the conversation on human capital development and organizational performance with special focus on new trends and dynamics. The overall objective is to bring to the fore the best ideas with the greatest transformative potential to engender sustained productivity. For more info: https://10times.com/hrea