  The International Cheese and Wine Fair When: April 2018 Where: Coulommiers, France The International Cheese and Wine Fair has taken place every year in late March in Coulommiers since 1967. This agricultural fair promotes regional cheese and wine specialities. Around 350 exhibitors and craftspeople from the culinary trades set up stalls on the forecourt of the sugar factory for this occasion. Over 60,000 gastronomes come to enjoy four days of celebrations, local product tastings and all kinds of activities. A big exhibition of livestock takes place in a friendly atmosphere. The International Cheese Fair also organises various contests such as the Coulommiers brie contest or the farm fresh dairy produce contest, not forgetting the very popular contest to guess “how much the cow Marguerite weighs”, which is open to the public. For more info: www.foire-fromages-et-vins.com   Alley Escape, Anniversary Edition When: April 21, 2018 Where: The Alley Restuarant & Lounge VI Bored ? Nothing to do in Lagos ? Then here’s is something to plan towards. Urbanescape , a Lifestyle tourism brand is having their second escape for 2018 and this time its a Buffet in an exquisite restaurant in Victoria Island , Lagos State, Nigeria. Urbanescape would be celebrating its Anniversary in a buffet style For more info: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/alley-escape-anniversary-edition-urbanescape-tickets-44747393659?aff=es2   SGF IFU Africa Roadshow NIGERIA When: April 24, 2018 Where: Hôtel ibis Lagos Ikeja, 23 Toyin Street This all-day conference is being organised by Best Produce International (UK) Ltd) in conjunction with the IFU & SGF. The IFU (www.ifu-fruitjuice.com) is the dedicated international fruit & vegetable juice association representing the interests of the world-wide juice community including the fields of legislation; science & technology; methods of analysis; and promoting the benefits of fruit juice. The SGF (www.sgf.org) is an independent industrial association focussing on all matters concerning quality, safety, authenticity and sustainability, especially in terms of self-control platforms. This conference is therefore part of the outreach programs. For more info: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/sgf-ifu-africa-roadshow-nigeria-tickets-43828702830?aff=es2  Macy’s Flower Show When: March 25 – April 8, 2018. Where: Macy’s Herald Square at 151 W 34st Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues New Yorkers and out-of-towners alike flock to this floral-filled exhibition, where jaw-dropping arrangements decorated to fit a specific theme are on display for two weeks. The theme for this 44th annual installment at the megachain’s Herald Square location is “Once Upon A Springtime,” so expect to see a lot of plays on fantasy-inspired settings and storybook scenes.  Greensprings / Kanu Football Camp (GKFC) When: April 8-13, 2018 Where: Lagos We are delighted to host the annual Greensprings / Kanu Football Camp (GKFC), scheduled for 8-13 April, 2018. GKFC was establish in 2012 to enable children between the ages of 5 and 17 years to learn football skills from the Dutch Football Association and English Premier League coaches, with the support of Lagos State Football Association. GKFC presents a lifetime opportunity where young boys and girls can develop the foundation skills required to become great footballers. For more info: http://www.greenspringskanufootballcamp.org  Las Olas Wine & Food Festival When: April 20, 2018 Where: South Florida Presented by Breakthru Beverage, New Amsterdam Vodka, Woodford Reserve, and William Hill Winery, this year’s Las Olas Wine & Food festival will feature not only five blocks of sips and samples from nationally recognized wineries and top restaurants throughout South Florida, but the American Lung Association will be adding a breath of fresh air for the culinary inclined.  Italian Wine Class – For Casual Wine Drinkers When: April 7, 2018 Where: General Provision Annex, 500 Northwest 1st Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33301, United States  Class by the Glass is a fun and interactive wine class where you taste and learn about various wines from all over the world! This class is for casual wine drinkers who love a good time and are ready to feel confident when selecting wine in a restaurant or store. No prior knowledge is needed. Class by the Glass is perfect for any night; Girls Night, Guys Night, Date Night, it’s been A Long Week Night! So, come join us for one of our events, drink some wine, meet new people, and learn something along the way. We look forward to seeing you soon!  For more info: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/italian-wine-class-for-casual-wine-drinkers-tickets-44252508444?aff=erelexpmlt   Virgin Money London Marathon 2018 When: April 22, 2018 Where: London Join thousands of runners and spectators on the streets of London for the Virgin Money London Marathon 2018. Every year, more than 40,000 people run the 26.2-mile (42.2km) marathon through the streets of London, with 327,516 people from the UK applying for a place in the 2018 marathon.   The Yoga Shala Expo When: May 4-6, 2018. Where: Pragati Maidan, Delhi. India’s first international yoga, Ayurveda and wellness expo brings together a wide variety of practitioners as well as displays of natural products including organic food and clothing, and herbal cosmetics. There will be workshops, seminars, interactive activities, health consultations, and astrology consultations. The festival is back for the third year this year. For more info: https://www.tripsavvy.com/may-india-festivals-and-events-guide-   Washington Square Outdoor Art Exhibit When:  May 26 – September 9 2018 Where:  Washington Square Park , Greenwich Village This city tradition feels fresh every spring when artists following in the footsteps of Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning set up shop in the park. Hundreds of exhibitors, from NYU students to artists who remember the Village as a creative enclave, display their paintings, sculptures, photography, jewelry and woodcraft. The show takes place on University Place starting at E 13th St. For more info: https://www.timeout.com/newyork/things-to-do/washington-square-outdoor-art-exhibit 