Rio Carnival (Brazil) When: 9 – 14 February 2018 Where: Rio De Janeiro – Brazil The Carnival in Rio de Janeiro is a festival held before Lent every year and considered the biggest carnival in the world with two million people per day on the streets. The typical Rio carnival parade is filled with revelers, floats, and adornments from numerous samba schools which are located in Rio. Dressed in beautiful costumes these amazing dancers parade through the Sambadrome; official balls  & parties are held at Copacabana Palace. And the streets come alive with the mini festivals instigated by locals where formality and structure are left far behind as music and dancing become the order of the day. For more info: https://maketimetoseetheworld.com/best-festivals-cultural-events-world/  SA National Beer Day at Beerhouse  February 3, 2018 Venue: Beerhouse on Long, 223 Long St, CBD, Cape Town SA national beer day at beerhouse on Long celebrates the second South African National Beer Day with 50% off their #DrinkLocal tasting tray and a free Beer Tasting with their local brewers at scheduled time slots. The #DrinkLocal tasting tray is made up of 6 x 120ml beers from breweries that are within 20km of Beerhouse. The SAN Beer Day is a collection of small scale events, promotions, pairings, specials and mini festivals held across the country on the first Saturday in February. For more info: https://www.whatsonincapetown.com/post/sa-national-beer-day-beerhouse/  Gulfood Annual Food and Beverage Expo and Conference  When: February 18-22, 2018 Where: Dubai World Trade Centre, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai Big on Tastes, Trends and Trade, the Gulfood Expo is the world’s largest annual food and beverage trade event serving one of the fastest growing sectors on the planet. In a market valued at more than $5 trillion globally, food and beverage business opportunities are vast and the stakes are high. To grow, you must remain agile, sourcing the latest products from the most competitive suppliers armed with real-time knowledge of industry pricing and forthcoming trends. That’s why Gulfood is your gateway to new food business in established, evolving and emerging markets. Only here can you access more than 5,000 local, regional and international suppliers from 5 continents during a critical phase in the annual world harvest cycle. For more info: https://www.gulfood.com/  25: Football – EFL Cup final  When: February 25, 2018 Where: Wembley Arsenal will face Manchester City in the EFL Cup final after winning a dramatic semi-final second leg against Chelsea at Emirates Stadium. The Gunners will face Pep Guardiola’s table toppers at Wembley on February 25 after beating Chelsea 2-1 to win 2-1 on aggregate on Wednesday night. For more info: https://www.standard.co.uk/sport/football/when-is-the-efl-cup-final-arsenal-vs-manchester-city-wembley-date-a3748951.html  Social Media Week Lagos  26 Feb-02 Mar 2018 Landmark Centre, Lagos, Nigeria Social Media Week Lagos heads into it’s 6th year after a successful 2017 edition that saw over 15,000 attendees across the week and had a global online reach of 454 million. The annual conference now considered Africa’s largest digital media & tech event returns to Landmark Centre on the 26th of February to the 2nd of March, 2018. SMW Lagos week-long programming focuses on ideas, trends, insights, business practices and policy that leverage technology to transform industries and communities across Africa. For more info: https://10times.com/social-media-week-conference  Holi (India)  When: 2 March 2018 Where: Mumbai, Dehli – India The annual Holi Festival celebration in India is known for its vibrant display of color and beautiful meaning of unity. Each year the Indian people come together to throw colors and celebrate how the color unifies them and washes away their differences for the duration of the day. Every person in India celebrates the holiday and it is truly a spectacle to behold for a foreign visitor. The festival starts out quite mild in the morning and grows into a crazy and colorful, almost out of control, party by the afternoon. It is mostly celebrated on the streets with loud music before people retreat to private house parties to eat and continue the celebration. Dance Umbrella 2018 – 30 years on  When: March 6-18, 2018 Where: Johannesburg, SA Celebrating its 30th anniversary, Dance Umbrella 2018 will run at various theatres and venues in Johannesburg from March 6-18, 2018. Celebrating its 30th anniversary, Dance Umbrella 2018, the premier platform of South African contemporary choreography and dance, will run at various theatres and venues in Johannesburg from March 6-18, 2018. Funded by the National Lotteries Commission, the internationally renowned annual festival will present 18 programmes of new contemporary dance works from both local and international choreographers. Dance Umbrella 2018 opens on March 6 and 7 at the UJ Centre for the Arts with two works: Gula Matari by Vincent Sekwati Mantsoe and Mayhem by Gregory Vuyani Maqoma. For more info: http://www.artlink.co.za/news_article.htm?contentID=43263