Bringing an all-new festival experience to Morocco, Oasis at the Fellah Hotel will be a three-day event of music mixed with Marrakesh sun, pools and mountain views. For a complete experience, guests can also enjoy local street food as well as yoga and wellness activities on site. For more info: theoasisfest.com If you love modern art, make the trip to Turkey this month. The Contemporary Istanbul art fair has been luring experimental enthusiasts away from the big guns that are Art Basel and Frieze and into a city that is continually contradictory. If Turkey's flagship commercial art event is as yet off the radar on the world horizon, the country's artists are getting increasingly more attention abroad, and Istanbul is an impulsive, absurdly noisy siren of a city. Website: contemporaryistanbul.com Munich's world-famous Beerfest returns this year, with more specialty German beer (Paulaner, Augustiner and other Oktoberfest-approved brews) and accompanying Sauerkraut and Weisswurst than imaginable in one's wildest dreams. For more info: oide-wiesn.de/oktoberfest; five-day trips are available via G Adventures from £699 per person (gadventures.com) The German BigCityBeats brand is heading from Frankfurt to South Korea for an inaugural festival held at Incheon Munhak Sports Complex that's set to be the biggest of its kind for the country. Don't let the fact it's a new festival put you off, though; the line-up includes massive names such as Steve Aoki, Robin Schulz, Afrojack, Martin Garrix and Armin Van Buuren. For more info: worldclubdomekorea.com End the festival season on a serious high at Life is Beautiful, a three-day extravaganza that sees Downtown Las Vegas transformed into a fully immersive celebration of music, art, food and ideas. Prepare yourself for performances from Chance the Rapper, Blink-182, Muse, Gorillaz and The xx, food by Las Vegas's top restaurants, thought-provoking speakers like Bill Nye The Science Guy sharing 'big messages' and incredible immersive art installations such as the Art Motel. This is the ultimate international city-based experience for festival lovers who want all the magic but none of the mud. Website: lifeisbeautiful.com Five hours drive from Edinburgh, Loopallu happens in the tiny Ross-shire town of Ullapool beside Loch Broom. Watch seals bobbing in the bay from your tent, sup Black Isle Brewery ales and dine at porridge bars or on locally landed seafood, including oysters and fish and chips. A waterfront big top hosts headliners more famous than such a small event has a right to book (Mumford and Sons, Paolo Nutini and Franz Ferdinand have all made the journey). After-hours, Loopallu sprawls out across Ullapool's pubs, where uninhibited Highlands-style partying goes on into the wee hours. For more info: loopallu.co.uk Made In Nigeria Shoe Expo 2018 (MINSE) is an international footwear and leather fair. With around 150 exhibitors, Made In Nigeria Shoe Expo (MINSE) is a strategic platform that brings together the very best of local footwear and leather manufacturers and their international counterparts to the Nigeria public, allowing for wide range visibility, market expansion and competitive advantage assertion. Over 50+exhibitors and 2500 visitors and industry professionals are expected at this edition. For more info: http://eventnownow.com/city/lagos/event/nigeria-shoe-expo-2018-international-and-local-footwear-exhibition-in-nigeria/ Durban Boat and Lifestyle Show will set the scene for the presentation of numerous new Boats and Yachts, Shipyards, Dealers and designers, showcase South Africa as well as World Premieres and discover the world greatest boat, watersport, and entertainment. For more info: https://10times.com/durban-boat-show Celebrate London’s eclectic food scene with the London Restaurant Festival.This month-long festival is a city-wide homage to great food in London, and the perfect excuse to try out some of the capital’s world-class restaurants.Discover cuisines from around the world, go restaurant hopping, and attend special themed nights pairing food and film. You can also enjoy great-value special menus at some of London's favourite restaurants, from neighbourhood joints to Michelin-star eateries. https://www.visitlondon.com/things-to-do/event/26845936-london-restaurant-festival This is one of the biggest racing events in France each year and Parisians have been flocking to watch the excitement for almost 100 years. Aim to be positioned trackside to see some of the world's best horses competing at the Hippodrome de Longchamp, Bois du Boulogne. For more info: www.prixarcdetriomphe.com/ The Hermanus Wine and Food Festival is a gateway for visitors into the award winning wines of the Overberg. The Overberg wine region produces some of the most sought after wines in the country and you are invited to browse through the wine show, appreciate, delight in and sense the fruit of the vines, and discover your own favourites. The Hermanus Wine & Food Festival was nominated as one of the 10 best wine festivals in South Africa! Local wineries from Elgin to Elim will present their wines and delectable fares for tasting, not forgetting delectable fares from various food and snack vendors. All the wines on tasting will be available for purchasing during the festival at cellar door prices. For more info: http://www.winelandsweb.co.za/hermanus-wine-and-food-festival/ For a truly autumnal experience in Paris, head to Montmartre in the 18th arrondissement for the Vendanges de Montmartre. Although the small vineyards on the hills around the brilliant white church of Sacré-Coeur only produce a small quantity of wine, the festival is a fun way to experience the harvest atmosphere. Festivities include wine tasting, local food specialties, music, street performances and a fireworks display. Combine this festival with our Charms Of Montmartre Walking Tour and learn all about this historical part of Paris. For more info: http://fetedesvendangesdemontmartre.com In ‘Overtake Don Overtake Overtake’, Fela sings about the effects of usurpation of power and the degradation of fledgling African democracies. His grievance is that, in saner climes, the duty of the armed forces is to defend and support the civil government; not to overthrow it or usurp the duties of any branch of government. To do the contrary is to ‘Overtake-overtake’. Any vision of a prosperous and tranquil country with the military at the helm of power is nothing but an illusion. The year is 2018. Persistent scandals and corruption at the highest level of power – a hallmark of successive regimes since 1960 – helps in putting Fela’s disillusionment with the military in perspective. Several civilian administrations have come and gone, yet a similar thread still runs through the fabric of the nation – overtake still dey overtake overtake. Therefore, as we celebrate Fela Anikulakpo Kuti posthumously at 80, we seek to empower the people through art, dance, music and intellectual discourse with the belief that together we shall succeed in ‘ Overtaking Overtake’ . For more info: http://eventnownow.com/city/lagos/event/felabration-2018-overtaking-overtake/ Visit Sydney in late spring for Bondi Beach’s famous art installation, Sculptures by the Sea. It’s the world’s largest, free public sculpture exhibition and features over 100 works by both local and international artists. The sculptures are scattered from scenic Bondi Beach to Tamarama Beach coastal walk, just outside of central Sydney. The 2018 festival will be held from October 18 to November 4. For more info: https://www.usatoday.com/story/travel/destinations/2018/01/18/festival-events-worth-traveling-2018/1042647001/